---
layout: post
title: Course Syllabus
categories: doc
---

# Course Information

Title
: Computer Applications in Engineering I

Course Code and Term
: ME 190 111; Spring 2016.

Program
: Mechanical Engineering Program; Milwaukee School of Engineering.

Textbook
: Joseph C. Musto, William E. Howard, and Richard R. Williams.
  *Engineering Computations: An Introduction using MATLAB and Excel.*
  Ed. by Debra B. Hash. McGraw-Hill Higher Education, 2009.

Prerequisite
: MA 127 or equivalent (College Algebra and Trigonometry).

Schedule
: Lecture/Lab: MW 5:00--6:50 pm.

Course Credits
: 2-2-3 (lecture-lab-credit)

Description
: The purpose of this course is to familiarize students with the modern computer
tools required for engineering practice, and teach them how to apply these tools
to solve practical engineering problems.

# Instructor Information

Instructor
: Professor Paul D. Gessler, MSME

Email
: [{{site.data.theme.email}}](mailto:{{site.data.theme.email}})

Mobile Phone
: 414-241-1627     
  *If this is abused, your number will be blocked.*

Office
: S-125

Office Hours
: MW 4:00--4:50 pm. Additional times by appointment.

# Course Objectives

Upon successful completion of this course, the student will be able to:

- apply problem-solving skills to engineering problems,
- present formal solutions to engineering problems, and
- use a variety of computer tools, understanding how they can be applied to
  mechanical and industrial engineering problems.

# Course Topics and Tentative Outline

| Wk | Topics | Reading |
|:-: | :----- | :------ |
| 1  | Course Introduction | Ch1 |
| 2 | Excel Fundamentals | Ch2 |
| 3 | MATLAB Fundamentals | Ch3 |
| 4 | MATLAB Programming | Ch4 |
| 5 | Programming Exercises; *Midterm Exam* | --- |
| 6 | Plotting Exercises | Ch5 |
| 7 | Roots of Equations | Ch6 |
| 8 | Numerical Integration | Ch9 |
| 9 | Matrix Mathematics | Ch7 |
| 10 | Simultaneous Equations; Review | Ch8 |
| (11) | *Final Exam* | --- |

# Course Grading

Grading Breakdown
: Course grades are calculated using the following categories and corresponding
  weights:

  | Category | Weight |
  | :- | -: |
  | Lab Reports | 40% |
  | Homework | 15% |
  | Participation | 5% |
  | Midterm Exam | 20% |
  | Final Exam | 20% |
  |=====
  | Total | 100% |

Grading Scale
: Letter grades are earned according to the MSOE grading scale:

  | Letter Grade | % Equivalent |
  | :- | -: |
  |A | 100--93|
  |AB|92--89|
  |B |88--85|
  |BC|84--81|
  |C |80--77|
  |CD|76--74|
  |D |73--70|    
  |F |69--00|

# Course Policies

Bring a calculator, your course textbook, and laptop to class every day.
You must have MATLAB and Excel installed and functioning in order to succeed in this course.
Contact the IT HelpDesk or the instructor with any software issues.

Class time is reserved for class activities, as determined in the sole discretion of the instructor.
Non-class activities include, but are not limited to:
email, instant messaging, text messaging, "vaping",
and non-course-related web browsing.
This is a professional environment with students from a wide variety of backgrounds.
As in the workplace, inappropriate screensavers, desktop backgrounds, or other imagery will not be tolerated.

Exceptions to course policies will be made only for legitimate,
documented medical and personal reasons discussed (in person)
and agreed upon with the instructor prior to the exam or assignment due date.
Requests for testing accommodations must be received through official channels (RCAS).

## Attendance and Participation
Attendance and active participation in lecture and laboratory sessions are expected,
and will be monitored and considered in borderline grading decisions.

Attendance in lecture is to your advantage. It is your responsibility.
Important material and examples given in lecture will not be in the textbook.
All students are responsible for this material on assignments and exams.
The instructor will *not* drop any student for reasons of lack of attendance.

## Homework Assignments
Homework assignments will consist of exercises covering the material from lecture each week.
They will be chosen so as to aid you in preparation for the lab session.
They may involve a combination of written work, programming, and spreadsheet calculations.

Exercises will be assigned verbally in class and typically will appear on the course website.
They will be graded as a 0, 1, or 2.
A “2” will be received for a good faith effort, meaning the student attempts
to answer *all* the questions posed, provides all results requested and provides a serious,
well-thought-out response to the assignment.
A “1” will be received for an exercise that is either significantly in error,
or is incomplete in some minor way, but in which the student made some attempt.
A “0” will be received for significantly incomplete assignments or assignments
that indicate the student did not take the assignment seriously.

Homework exercises are due at the beginning of class on the assigned due date.
Late homework exercises will *not* be accepted.
In order to receive full credit, all assignments must be

- (for handwritten work) completed on the front side of engineering paper,
- (for computer assignments) printed one-sided on letter-sized paper,
- well-organized, legible, professionally presented, and succinct,
- identified at the top of each page with the student's name, the course/section number, and the date, and
- stapled together with pages numbered and in order.

All computer work must be your own, fully commented programs.
Failure to comply with these guidelines will result in significant deductions in your assignment grades.
The lowest homework score will be dropped from the final grade.

## Laboratory Assignments
Lab reports are due at the beginning of class on the assigned due date.
No credit will be given for late lab reports.
In order to receive full credit, all lab reports must be

- identified with a cover page containing at least the lab title,
  student's name, course/section number, and date,
- printed one-sided on letter-sized paper,
- well-organized, legible, professionally presented, and succinct,
- identified at the top of each page with the student's name,
  course/section number, and date, and
- stapled together with pages numbered and in order.

All computer work must be your own, fully commented programs.
Failure to comply with these guidelines will result in significant deductions in your report grades.
The lowest lab report score will be dropped from the final grade.


## Exams
The midterm exam will be given in the lab session of Week 5.
You will have the entire two hour period to complete the exam.
It will cover material from Weeks 1--4.

The (cumulative) final exam will be given during final exam week.
You will have the entire two hour period to complete the exam.
It will primarily cover material from Weeks 5--10, but any course material may appear.

Exams will not be made up, except at the discretion of the instructor.

## Academic Honesty
You may discuss homework and lab assignments with other students, but must complete, write up, and submit your own work.
In this class, you will be expected to conform to the MSOE Student Conduct Code and Policy on Student Integrity.
Students *may not* look at or copy the final documented form of any other student’s work.

The act of submitting material with your name on it for a grade will be
taken as your statement that all work contained within is your own work, unless
otherwise noted by proper citation of the source.

If assignments with any of the following are handed in, they will be dealt with as a violation of the above policy:

- identical work handed in by two or more students,
- portions of an assignment appear verbatim from another student’s work, or
- incorrect analyses with the same identical mistakes are handed in by two or more students.

Violation of this policy can result in a grade of F for the course, and, further, may result
in disciplinary action at the departmental and/or institutional level(s).
