---
layout: post
title: "Lab 1: A Cannonball Flight"
categories: lab
---

# Tasks

Complete Problem 1.3 from the course textbook[^1], which is a variant
of the cannonball problem covered in Chapter 1 of the textbook.
It is reproduced here for convenience.

Consider the cannon model developed in Section 1.1.1.

- Using the equations developed and a launch speed of
  10&#8239;m/s, develop the pseudocode for an algorithmic
  solution to determine the launch angle required to reach a peak height of
  at least 2.5&#8239;m.
- Using discrete values spaced 5° apart, carry out the
  algorithmic solution by hand. Report each step of the algorithm in a table.
- Perform an analytic solution for this problem, and compare the results
  with your algorithmic solution [quantitatively].

# Deliverables
Prepare a report documenting your work. Focus on quality, not quantity!
Your report should be as brief as possible, but should provide enough
information that someone else could reproduce your work.
The report should be a "self-supporting document"; that is, it should stand on its own.
External documents and other sources to which you refer should be properly cited
using a consistent citation format of your choosing.

The report should:

- Fulfill all requirements listed for lab reports on your syllabus.
- Include some organizational scheme to aid reading. A suggested outline
  might be *Introduction*, *Methods*, *Results*, and, finally, *Discussion*.
- Contain a statement of the problem, including a sketch to aid the reader.
- Use a consistent tense and voice, adhering to English grammar and usage.

In general, the *Introduction* section describes the "what and why",
the *Methods* section describes *how* the task was accomplished,
the *Results* section describes *what you found*, and
the *Discussion* section conveys *what it means* along with any
comments about the work or notes for future exploration.
Consult *Student Writing Guide: Lab Reports*[^2] for further details and report-writing tips.

I don't have strict preferences for the style or layout of the reports.
You can choose your own preferred style conventions and be consistent throughout the report.
Keep in mind that the purpose of your report is to communicate your work as clearly and efficiently as possible.
This means that all figures and tables should be numbered and have
descriptive captions so the figure/table can stand on its own.
However, more importantly, every figure and table should be introduced by number
in the body text, so the reader understands how the content connects to the text.

The lab report is due at the beginning of lab in week 2.
Late reports are not accepted!

[^1]: Joseph C. Musto, William E. Howard, and Richard R. Williams.
      *Engineering Computations: An Introduction using MATLAB and Excel.*
      Ed. by Debra B. Hash. McGraw-Hill Higher Education, 2009.

[^2]: Ben Adams and Will Durfee.
      *Student Writing Guide: Lab Reports.* Technical report.
      University of Minnesota, 2009.
      URI: <http://www.me.umn.edu/education/undergraduate/writing/MESWG-Lab.1.5.pdf>.
