---
layout: post
title: "Lab 2: The Cannonball Revisited"
categories: lab
---

# Tasks

Create a spreadsheet that will calculate the horizontal distance traveled (range) of the cannonball
using the analytic solution developed in Section 1.1.2 of the course text[^1].
This lab is based on Problem 2.12 of your text.

Your spreadsheet should allow the user to specify:

- a minimum and maximum launch angle (in &deg;) as well as
- a minimum and maximum launch speed (in m/s).

The spreadsheet should use these minimum and maximum parameter values to calculate the cannonball range over the entire
“design space” using 10 evenly-spaced values for the launch angle and 10 evenly-spaced values
for the launch speed.

The table below shows an example with just 5 evenly-spaced values for brevity.


<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th> </th>
<th> </th>
<th colspan="5">Speed (m/s)</th>     
</tr>
<tr>
<th> </th>
<th> </th>
<th>0.0</th><th>25.0</th><th>50.0</th><th>75.0</th><th>100.0</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr><th> </th><th style="text-align: right">0.0</th></tr>
<tr><th> </th><th style="text-align: right">5.0</th></tr>
<tr><th rowspan="5"><div class="rotate">Angle (&deg;)</div></th><th>10.0</th></tr>
<tr><th style="text-align: right">15.0</th><td> </td><td> </td><td> </td><td> </td><td>&nbsp;</td></tr>
<tr><th style="text-align: right">20.0</th><td> </td><td> </td><td> </td><td> </td><td>&nbsp;</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Allow the user to input a range value (in m) and have your spreadsheet highlight any combinations
having a predicted range within 5% of the target range. *Hint: Use the conditional formatting tools.*

Also, count the number of combinations having a predicted range within 5% of the target range and report the count on the spreadsheet.
*Hint: Use the `COUNTIF` function.*

# Deliverables
Submit your spreadsheet as an email attachment to me before 5pm on 23 March 2016. The body
of your email should be a memo-style informal note describing your work. Include instructions
for use if necessary. No formal report is required for this lab.

[^1]: Joseph C. Musto, William E. Howard, and Richard R. Williams.
      *Engineering Computations: An Introduction using MATLAB and Excel.*
      Ed. by Debra B. Hash. McGraw-Hill Higher Education, 2009.
