---
layout: post
title: "Lab 4: There's No Place Like Home"
categories: lab
---

Complete Problem 4.12 from your textbook[^1], with the following modification:
Instead of using a fixed loan term (period), amount, and interest rate, allow the user
to input these values at the beginning of the program’s execution. You may have to
do some research on financial websites to determine how to calculate the monthly
payment for a given set of inputs.

To be clear, your program must accept user input of the following items:

1. loan term, in years (15 or 30, reject any invalid input),
2. loan amount, in US dollars (initial principal balance), and
3. loan interest rate, in percent (APR, or annual percentage rate).

Using the user input listed above, your program should output the amortization
table to a file in a format similar to Figure P4.12 of your textbook[^1].

You might consider starting by completing Problem 4.12 without modification,
checking it against the result in the book, and then modifying your solution to meet
the new requirements above.

Prepare a report documenting your work and any equations used within, citing
sources as appropriate. Follow report guidelines from your syllabus and from
Week 1 Lab. Include your program flowchart in the report. This will aid you in
explaining how you approached the problem.

Print out a copy of your report to hand in at the beginning of Week 6 Lab (5pm, 20 April 2016).
Include the source code in your report as an appendix. Also submit your source code via email.

[^1]: Joseph C. Musto, William E. Howard, and Richard R. Williams.
      *Engineering Computations: An Introduction using MATLAB and Excel.*
      Ed. by Debra B. Hash. McGraw-Hill Higher Education, 2009.
